The development of a company relies on the attributes of its employee.So,recruiting best employee for a company is a mandaotry
task.while recruiting a new employee,many companies emphasize on personal qualities of an employee while others put more attention
at the qualification or experience.I do agree with both of the aspects.Here i will give my interpretation regarding my statement.

personal quality evaluates whether a person behaviour is good or bad.if the behaviour of an employee is not well enough, then the
company would face difficulties in case of controlling its employer.Moreover,a company cannot trust a person with bad personal
quality in case conducting its activity smoothly.Thats why i think a company should paid attention at the personal quality
of an employee.

on the other hand,qualification and experience are two vital elements that should exhist in an employee..For instance,there will 
arise many situation where one would have to take instant decision.an employee with qualification and experience can handle
such kind of situation smartly.Moreover,an experienced employee can bring achievement for a company with his sagacity and 
sensibility.

in conclusion,i think both personal quality and experience represnt two different sides of a suitable employee for a 
company.if the company looks for such an employee who contains both of these quality ,this employee will bring attainment attainment
for the company eventually.

Children nowadays spend a great deal of time watching television. However, television cannot replace the book as a 
learning tool, which is why children are less well‐educated today. To what extent do you agree with this statement?



wy
Television is one of the most popular visualization element in the world. It is widely used as an entertainment tool by 
everyone. Specially children have spent most of their time with it. Howevr, television cannot replace the book as a learning
tool. I do agree with this statement. Because A person can put more concentration on a book than television during acquiring
knowledge. Here i will give my explaination regarding the statement.

Book is the source of knowledge. Whenevr we read any books it poured our brain with knowledge and thoughts which will remain
forever in our mind. Moreover each specific book visualize differnt aspects of knowledge which really helps us to know
variety of things. There is no distraction problem in case of books which is vast in case of television. From the beginning
of our childhood we read variet of books at every class which helps us to increase our conscience and sensibility.

on the other hand, in case of televisison one cannot concentrate fully on any specific things because there are several knids
of amenities available for entertainment purpose. Although there are some educational channels exist for educational 
purpose, But these are very low in comparison with entertainment channel. Thats why one can easily loose his attention from
study and might engage himself/herself with entertainment. Moreover people usually use television so that they can perceive
some enjoyment from it. Which signify that we usually used television at our leisure time for enjoymnet.

in conclusion, Book is the best staff for gaining education and enrich our cognition. Books also helps us to make our
conscience sagacity and intellectual.Although in recent days television is used as a learning tool for some identified sibject. But it is 
not widely used by everyone as a learning tool.So, television cannot replace the book as a learning tool.

from:maher@gmail.com
from:rahi@gmail.com




Universities should allocate the same amount of money to students' sports activities as they allocate to their libraries. 


A university constructed the future of a student by providing them education. It is an expanded territory where is no bound
and limitness for a student. They can do whatever they wanted to and this really helps a student to widespread their sen-
sibility and make them as competent for anything. In order to be establised as a genius student i think that they might
be needed libraries and sports facilities equally. So, I do aggree with the statement that the universities should allocate
the same amount of money to students sports activities as they allocate to their libraries. Here i will give my interpretation
relevant to my statement.

Sports are mandatory for everyone. It enables us to refresh our mind and keep us healthy and fit. It also prevents many
health issues. If one person used to play any kinds of sport regularly his working capability will be much higher than 
those who usually don't play any. By considering this massive amount of amenities universities should spend money
in this sector so that the students get enough facilities which will enthusias them for playing any sports at a regular 
basis.

on the other hand, libraries are equally important for students. Sports will stable the mentality of the student. But library
will help a student to attain knowledge which are going to make them well enough for doing well in their eductaion as well as
to build up their carrier at the same time. The main intention of any students are to do well in their academic life and there is
no ambigous that library will make the way far easier for them. Because library is the place where they can dive into an ocean
of knowledge and can collect any kinds of information according to their desires.

In conclusion,  I want to say that unversity authority should make eqaul distribution of their funding between sports and
libraries. Because these two things are extremely compulsary for constructing a student compatible for facing any challenges.



from:sunny@gmail.com
from:bappu@gmail.com


Tourism is becoming increasingly important as a source of revenue to many countries, but its disadvantages should not be 
overlooked. To what extent do you agree or disagree?

Tourism is one of the uplifting business sector in modern era. People adopted the desires for visualising the beauty of
new places. This enables them to come out from their busy schedule and helps them vehemently in refreshing their mind
body and health. Thats why people are immnesely consuming a lots of money in this specific area. But the host countries
more precisely the countries with tourist spots have to face a lot of difficulties because of the enourmous amount of visitors 
every year. The impacts which is imposing on the host countries because of the tourism should be overlooked by the autho-
rities. This will dissolve those disadvantages and at the same time  will assist to remain the infrastructure of the tourist spots
stable for perpetually. 


Visitors puts a lot of impression on the society and culture of a tourist area. People love to emulate others.This is the
bitter truth and we cannot flout the existence of this. Visitors convey the attributes of their own society and culture.
Whenever travellers visit a spots surronding people imitate their behaviour which indirectly prompting the neighbours to receive
their culture. For instance,coxs bazar is one of the longest sea beach in the world and visitors from different countries
used to visit this place usually. Because of this the lifestyle of local residencial people has got changed massively
and their local tradition is about to be disrupted in near future. Also visitors impose negative impacts on the environment
also. The territory of the tourist spots is being polluted by the visitors.



on the other hand, Tourism collaborate in incraesing the GDP of a country. It generates huge amount of job opportunities
for those local people lives surronding the tourist spots. Which indirectly reduce the unemployment rate of a country. It also
helps them to earn their livelihood. Moreover Tourism helps them to widen their mind and they can know about the lifestyle
of different countries people. It also expanded the doorways of friendly zone among two different countries people.



In conclusion, i want to remark that the authorities should put emphasize on preventing the causes which arise
during the peak period of season on a tourist spot. This will help to keep the spots safe and suitable for the up-
coming visitors.



Throughout history, people have dreamed of living in a perfect society, but they have not agreed on what an ideal society
would be like. What do you think is the most important element of a perfect society in the modern world? How can people
work towards achieving an ideal society?



from:salman@gmail.com
from:sahrukh@gmail.com

Every person has  desire to live in a perfect society. But nowadays we merely see the existence of a perfect society.
Because people are almost losing their morals and norms which they have learned from their families. A perfect society
is built upon on several ingredients. I think that in order to form a perfect society these three elements should be persisted
in a society. These are well communication between the members of thr society,high education rate among the members of the
society and high employment rate.


In a perfect society relationship between the members is truly good. The members of a perfect society knows each other
very well and the communication between them is good. They always get ready to help anyone at anytime. communication
is mandatory for a perfect society. Because if the members dont know each other very well then they cannot form a society
because well communication between the members of a society is the core element which should be satisfied by a perfect society.
Many sociologist put huge emphasizes on this specific term.

The members of a society must be well educated. Because an educated person more tends to abide the  law of a society
than an uneducated person. Educated people can pour a society with their conscience and sensibility. Moreover they can
set up peace and harmony in a society. We barely see riot and chaos in a society where most of the members are educated.
And most importantly they spread their knowledge and well thoughts among the members which really instigate others in
following the right path.


High employmment ratio among the members assist to make an established society. It uprises the living style of the society
members. A society with a bunch of wealth and established people are the building block of a perfect society. Moreover, when 
there is no persistancy of need among the members then one cannot witness any chaotic incident in that society.

In conclusion, We can said that a perfect society is based upon on this three elements. There are also other elements
which should be consisted in a society. But these there elements are compulsary for any society. People should emulate 
these elements in their real life. In order to make a perfect society these elements should be instilled in a society and must be followed 
by the individual members.   







Many people say that the only way to guarantee a good job is to complete a course of university education. Others claim that 
it is better to start work after school and gain experience in the world of work. Discuss
  
For seeking a good job university education and experience is mandatory at the same time. But to gain experience first
we need to find a job and university graduation will help us in finding a job.So, I do agree with the statement that for fin
ding a good job university education is more convenient than gaining experience in the world of work after school.


University education builds the basement of our knowledge which actually makes ourself compatible for attending a job viva.
The job recruiters are going to see our university performance rether than asking about our experience.Because
for gaining experience first we need to find a job and must spend several years here to flourish our experience level. And 
most importantly university education is more relevant to the job sectors working procedure. And thats why a student can
construct himself in a better way for the jobs.

on the other hand, experience is always perishable in the job sectors. There is no doubt that an experienced person is
greatly evaluated in the job sector than an unexperienced person. Because, by the way an experince person can handle
any crucial situation which we cannot prospect from an unexperienced one. But our job markets gives more attention to
those employees who has achieved his university completion certificate and also have done jobs which are related to 
their course subjects. The employees whom doesnt have any university graduation certificate but have many years work
experience,usually those employees are not greatly evaluated by the employers.

In conclusion, I think that university education is most helpful for guranting a good job than gaining experience in 
the world of work. But the experince will be helpful when one have university completion certificate and also work
on his relevant sectors for many years. This kind of experience can definitely help anyone for guranting a good job.







Popular events like the football world cup and other international sporting occasions are essential in easing international tensions and releasing patriotic 
emotions in a safe way. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this opinion?



Sports are a great source of entertainment. It enables people to mitigate their stress and pressure and help them in bringing some happiness in their regular life. International sports events like the world cup, Olympic cumulate people from all around the world and give them a common platform to share their emotions and supports for their own country. It cooperates in easing international tensions and safely releasing patriotic emotions. To some extent, I agree with the statements, and to some extent, i disagree with it.



World cup, Olympic, and other sports events held almost every year. People from all over the world support their own country either virtually or by going to the host country so that they can support their team by existing in the stadium. They exposed their support for their national team and tried their best to cheer up their player. This kind of gesture is one kind of patriotism. Because in this way they showed the world how much they love their country.
At the same time, it also helps in preventing conflict between the two countries. For example, We know that there has a conflict running between Pakistan and India from many years ago. But when a cricket match held between these two countries, supporters from both states used to visit each other. They also share their sentiments and thoughts during the event. Before starting the match, each team sang their national anthem, and all the supporters in the gallery show their respect for the country by standing on their feet irrespective of whether it's their own country or not. This indirectly assists in reducing international tensions by creating love and affections for other countries.



On the other hand, Sometimes, confrontation arises between the two team supporters during the match. The supporters got influenced by the condition in the field, and they just exploded their arrogance on each other. There are also some political issues associated that instigate the supporters in
getting a fight with the opponent. Moreover, the expression of support for their national team is not enough to evaluate their level of love for their country.


In conclusion, It is true that international sports event helps in easing global tensions and carefully releasing patriotic emotions. But it depends on the attitude of the supporters whether they are utilizing this opportunity in a good way or in a bad way. Such kinds
of events are mostly prompted by sentiments and emotions. Sometimes sentiments just triggered the situation in a different way, which just screwed everything. 










In some countries children have very strict rules of behavior, in other countries they are allowed to do almost anything they like. To what extent should 
children have to follow rules?
 

Rules and regulations are mandatory to establish peace and prosperity in a society. Our parents and family members used to teach us about norms and morality
from the beginning of our childhood. Childhood is the best periods to build someone as a well behaved and decent person. So there might have some rules 
and regulations which should be followed strictly by any children. But too much strictness can ruin there beautiful childhood. So we should remain mild
enough in case of implementing rules on them.

when a child started to realize about what is going on their surrondings from that moment their family members should begin to teach them about some basic ethics 
and norms which they must be needed to live in a society. Every society has some rules which should be followed strictly by its members. And if anyone 
encroached any rules they might get punished by the law enforcers. So if we are able to show them the right avenue from their early age then peace will be established in 
society. In modern era most of the families get disrupted because of the rough behaviour of their child. Every parents gave birth to their child by adopting
a lot of prospects and hopes into them. But If any child get ruined because of lack of knowledge and education then their parents suffers most. So,if we consider
in this aspect, then imposing strict rules for children is fair and justice.



On the other hand, Childhood is the period where is no bound and limitness. They loved to do what they like most. They are less likely to follow
any restriction and barrier. At this age we could teach them anything by being nice to them. There is no need for any strict regulations.
It can destroy their psyche badly. Because during that period they usally dont have the matuarity to emulate any rules drastictly. It might confine 
their doorways and their mind also. So, If we can give them such an environment where they can construct their minimum level of morality by following
their family members and surrondings then there is no need to destroy their golden period by implementing strict rules.



In conclusion, There must have sufficient regulations which will help in nurturing a child in a well mannered way. Rules and regulations 
are necessary for them, But not so acutely which can vanish their thinking capability. Every country has different culture which actually
defines whether a child  has got raised by following strict rules or whether they will be allowed to do anything they like.








Some businesses prohibit smoking in any of their offices. Some governments have banned smoking in all public places. Do you agree or disagree that this is the 
right course of action? Give reasons for your opinion. 

  



Smoking is detrimental for health. It can cause damage to our lungs and led ourselves through several diseases. That is why many business companies and
organizations prohibit smoking in their offices. Even some goverments have banned smoking in all public places. I agree with this course of action
against smoking in public places and in offices.



Smoking is badly injurious for us. It gradually affects our lungs and vanished our respiratory system. Consecutive smoking can cause lung cancer.
Cigarette contains nicotine that slowly mitigate our brains mobility. Smoking is not affectous for individuals only. For example, If a smoker
smokes nearby a non smoker person then both are equally affectable. So, smoking in public places is not acceptable. Besides it contaminates the
air also. The air gets polluted by the smokes exhaled by a smoker. Childrens health are badly disrupted because of smoking. So to give them
a fresh environment we should quit smoking in public places. Moreover, In an office many people exist whom dont have the habits of smoking.
So if someone smokes in front of them this can distract their attention from working. Besides it can put impacts on their health also.


On the other hand, Despite having many disadvantages, Smoking has some advantages also. For instance, nicotine can increase the strength of
working capability of a person. Nicotine can active our brain vehemently, and can charged up a person to come out from his fainted state.
Many people use smoking as their refreshing tool. Most people use it to reduce their daily stress.



In conclusion, I must say that Smoking is not a good thing. It can affect both individuals and masses at the same time. Those who dont
smoke, should not be got affected by it. So, By considering everyones interest smoking should be banned and restricted from the country
and from the working institutions also. This will help to build a safe and sound society around the world.     




The Internet when used as a source of information, has more drawbacks than advantages. To what extent do you agree with this statement?

Internet is the most renowned source for providing with information. It has associated with technology to make our life smooth and faster.
In many aspect, It just increased the accessibility to every sector. But many believes that when internet used as a source of information,
it has more drawbacks than advantages. I disagree with the statement.



Internet is the most marvelous discovery of 20th century. Before invention of the internet our life was more difficult than it is now.
By using internet we can retrive any information within a few seconds. In every sectors of our life we used this invention immensely.
For example, When a student needs any information regarding studies he/she just used a browser to search about the content and can
get information about that specific content within a few moments. Its just incresing our working momentum with high speed. The biggest
miracles of internet is its association with social media like facebook,instagram,whats app,twitter and so forth. Social media has brought
this world in our hand. By virtue of this social media, We can make friends from any corner of the world. It's Not only help us by making friends but also'
it has been providing us with many useful information about other countries. All of this has become possible because of the internet. For Research purpose
we always need access to many information. All these information cannot be gathered from one or two books. We might need several books to get the information
that we want. But By utilizing internet we can get those information within one serach in the browser and there is no need to look over several books for 
the information. Its one kind of time saving machine for use.

Despite of having many advantages, It has a few drawbacks which are negligable. For instance, Many people spend a lot of time on social media.
Moreover, Before invention of the internet people used to visit library to get their desired information. But after advent of the internet
the popularity of the library has decreased which literally limiting our knowledge levels. Furthermore, During searching moment, many advertise
appears with the information in the webpage which actually distract our concentration. By accessing internet many juvenile watch porn movies
which can disrupt their brains and minds.

In conclusion, Internet has both pros and cons. But its pros is acute in comparison with its cons. The consequences is actually
depends on the behavior of our usage. If people use it for good objective, then undoubtedly the outcome will be good. And if people
use it for bad purpose, then the outcome will be detrimental.       


We are becoming increasingly dependent on computers. They are used in business, hospitals, crime detection and even to fly planes. 
What things will they be used in the future? Is this dependence on computers a good thing or should we be more suspicious of their benefits? 


Technology has modernized our world immensely. Almost every sector of this modern world has been associated with technology.
Computer is the vital elements of this modern era. We used computer in every aspect of our life to automate our daily activities.
It is used in business,hospitals,crime detection and even to fly planes. But excessive usage of this device is imposing several detrimental
effects on our lifes. 


Computer is one of the best discovery of this modern tecnology. It has put its footprints in every aspects of our life. It has just changed 
the momentum of our work. For example, In job sector, we tottaly relied on our personal computer to perform our work. It is used to make connection
with remote client. Besides we can get the result of a huge calculation within a second by using computer. In business related jobs it is often necessary
to get the result of many calculations within a few seconds. As the current world is modernized, So most of the jobs are computer related. For example, web development, software farm,
e-commerce and so on. Facebook,instagram and twitter is the major consequences of computer. Computer was used by the ownner to make those applications. Not only in 
job area, But computer is also used tremendously in case of the educational purpose. Education system is fully based on computer now. For instance, Teachers
used computer to take online classes in case of pendancy. During this corona pandemic, Many universities are conducting their academic activities through
online classes. Google has launched a cloud meeting application through which a huge audience can join in one platform to hear the speech from one person. At 
the same this app is also used to make video calls irrespective of considering the distance of the participants. The environment almost seems like a classroom
in this case. By virtue of computer nothing can resist the pace of our life.



Moreover, Computer will be used to make prediction about the future. Data science and machine learning is the two emerging field in this recent era.
using computer programming language, We can make prediction about the future by analysing the previous data sets. For example, In case of ecommerce,
when a customer visits amazon they keep track of the activities of that customer. Next time, When this customer revisist the amazon page, they exhibit
those products which was searched by this customer more frequently. This is one kind of miracle of the computer.


On the other hand, Computer has some disadvantages also. Fisrtly, People are engaging with this device enourmously. They are less likely to interact 
with others pysically. Because of the influence of social media, people likes to hangout with their special one virtually. So, gradually social
interaction has started to mitigate. Besides, as computer is used to automate the works, So It is reducing our working capability also. Which 
slowly led us towards various health diseases.

In conclusion, The  of computer is totally depends on the usage of a person







Nowadays an ordinary person can become popular through the Internet and TV media. Is it a positive or a negative development? Give your opinion and relevant examples.


Internet and tv media are the most widely used tools among the world. Almost every person spent  particular amount of time on using these platforms
so that they can entertain themselves by reducing their stress and pressure. Because of this huge association many people specially young generation
have tried to become popular through the internet and tv media. This has both advantages and disadvantages. But i think the negative impacts of this
development might overweigh the positive impacts.



Internet and tv media are mostly used for entertainment and information collection purpose. By utilizing this opportunity many youths have started
to create video contents on youtube. if vast amount of viewers viewed their videos, then they can earn money from the youtube authorities in a 
monthly basis. Moreover, Many youtube channels made video contents on study topics. So, We can use this resources to learn various staff.
For example, Ayman sadiq is one of the most popular youtubers in bangladesh. He is the founder of robi 10 minuts school. In this channel, they
used to make videos on various study related topics. By watching those videos many students can acquire knowledge and can build a clear concept
on that specific topics in case if they didnt understande that topics from their teachers. Moreover, various tv channels used to broadcast
many musical and dance competition shows. The winners of these competitional shows have a huge fan following after the termination of those 
shows. For their huge popularity, They actually get called for concerts from which they can earn money. We have seen many musicians who
became famous because of this tv media. For example Arijit singh is the most popular singer in india. He got raised in a very poor family.
However, He got chance in bollywood through the indian idol which is one of the most popular tv musical shows in india. If he didnt get 
the platform then it was not possible by him to get a break in the musical industry.


On the contrary, These kinds of popularity also imposed bad effects on society,culture and  even people get misinformation in many cases.
for example, before starting the corona pandemic in bangladesh, one doctor created a video where he tried to say that corona virus
could not spread in bangladesh like ameriaca and italy because of the temperature level. These video got viraled on facebook tremendously
and people of bangladesh also got satifaction from his misinformation at that time. But eventually his prediction proved wrong and the
corona pandemic spiking in our country so badly. On the other hand, the youth generation sometimes got influenced by the bad contents.
Moreover, the youth generation spend huge amount of time in facebook,instagram on making videos and snapping pictures so that they can
gain popularity. Because of this, they actually spend less amount of time on acquiring practical skills, Which actually ruining their
future.



Some people think that recruiting companies should aim to take on people who are innovative and able to work independently while others consider they should 
recruit people who are able to work in a team and follow instructions. Discuss both views and give your opinion.
 
  
 
A company success mostly depends on its type of employees. There are several charecteristics which must be possessed by an employee so that he/she
can associate a company with his/her skills. Among them i want to point out some which is more needy. these are innovative minds, capability of 
working individually, capable of working in a team and being abide to follow the instructions of their senior colleagues. So, i think that in case
of recruiting employees a company should focus on both aspects, innovation and ability to work independently as well as have the ability to work in a team
and follow instructions of seniors.


Innovation and revoulition are mandatory in this modernized world because in every moment the world is changing and making its way towards upliftment
through some innovative minds and ideas.An innovative employee can assist a company by giving some new ideas which can lead the company towards
development. Innovative employee can think out of the boxes which is more preferable in this digital era. Because one convenient idea can change the
outlook of a company.For example, the woners of facebook mark zukerburg started the making procedure of his application by on;y one idea, and the idea
was how he could connect people. This one simple idea make him one of the richest person in the world.Moreover the capability of working independently
is also necessary for a company. Because in many projects individual skills are more relevant and competent for the completion of this project more 
smoothly.for instace, In it company or software related comapnies most of the works needed individual skills, which cannot be accomplished by two or
three persons. Independent working capability also helps a company economically. Because if three employees work can be completed by one, then the
company doesnt have to give salary to three individual employees which can also make a company economically sustainable and profititable.



On the other hand, ability to work in a team and following the instructions of seniors are equally important for a company. Because in many cases,
the employees might have to work as a group. For instance, suppose a company have to complete a big project with in a deadlines and more precisely 
this project needs 10 employees for completion. In this point this specific ability can help the comapny to complete these project within that specified
periods. Moreover, when more people work as group, then the momentum of working capabilty just fostered tremendously.at the same time following the instructions'
of the seniors are also imortant. for examply when a new employee joined in a company it might not possible by him to know the working procedure of 
a company, and also he might face difficulties to cope up with the new environment. So if he has that mind to follow the directions of his seniors
than it will be more fluent for him to know about the proceduer and also cope up with this new environment. In this case, he can contribute his skills
for the company more smootjly which also cooperte the company to make a move towards flourishment.  

 

Some People believe that educational success depends on good teachers. Others think that its depend on the attitude of the students.
 Discuss Both Views and give your opinion.


Educational success plays a pivotal role in flourising the life of a student as well as it also develops the education rate of a nation.
a nation upliftment is mostly depends on how much its citizens are successful in pursuing education.There are many ways through which 
educational success can be achieved.Some people believe that this success depends on good teachers where other believes that this success
totally depends on the devotion and desires of a student. I belief that both of these aspects play same role in gainig this success. But we
should give more emphasize on students will because nonetheless he/she is the one on which the success is mostly dependent.




Teachers are the constructor of students knowledge and skill. from the beginning stage of our educational life we always took care of our knowledge
under the influence of teachers. for instace, in our school,college and moreover in our university life also there are specific teachers for each
individual subject. Apart from this, our gurdians also allocated a teacher for us in hour home  to take special care of us. Teacher is the person 
who has vasted amount of experience and skills on the subject that he taught us. They works as the gurdians for us. educational success is mostly relied 
on choosing the right paths by a student. A tecaher is the one who actually assisted us in choosing the right path.moreover a student may weak in a subject.
So, in that case a students can overcome his weakness by taking instruction from his/her teacher. I saw many students in my life, who was less concentrated
about their education. but they dedicated themselves in studies by being motivated by their teachers. I think every student has s special tacher in their
life whose contribution is more acute in achieveing the success in eduactional life.


on the other hand, Success is a thing which is mostly relied on ones will. If a students doesnt have enough desires to do studies then no tacher can instigate
him/her for doing studies. there is a proverb when there is will, there is way. The willingness of a student is more vital in pursuing educational success.
i have seen many students who didnt have well enough family backgroung as well as they didnt take helps from a mentor at the same time. but their desires
and devotion didnt create impedes in gaining success in their educational ife.



in conclusion, i want to opine that a teacher can prompt a student to choose the right direction, but  his/her devotion and hardship can led themselves
to ride into the highest positions of success.

In some societies the number of crimes committed by teenagers is growing. Some people think that regardless of age, teenagers who commit major crimes should 
receive adult punishment. To what extent do you agree?


the number of juveniles engaging in crimes has been increasing rampantly. crimes like rape, murder have also been done by the adults in this era.
The main reason behind this is the mitigating rate of morality from our society. Even a few decades earlier, there were no adult crimes.But this
rate is spiking greatly now.When we were at childhood we used to go through a strict environment in our family. we always scolded by our parents,uncles
and our relatives if we did any kind of notorious acitivities. So we have learned a lot of moral lessons from our family and from our respectable
teachers also. But in recent time, the practice of morality and ethicity has decreased enourmously in families. With the advancement of technologies
people engaged themselves more acutely with digital gadgets rather than spending times with their family members which was the major learning source 
of morality at our adolescent age. But in recent period, parents usily get busy with their office or other activities. Thats why they dont spend much time
on nurturing their children. So the juvelines just get deprived and engaged them with different crimes by coming in touch with bad friends.



crimes cant be relied on age. When it is performed by a person he should be termed as criminal. An adolescent has the enough intelligency
of differentiating between moral in immoral activities. He has the conscience of measuring that doing murder or rape of a person is prohibited.
So when they possess such kind of conscience, And by possesing this much of sensibilty if they commits a crime so they should be punished as like
as adults. Because if they get less punishment by the law enforcers then they wont think for the seconed to do the same crime again.I have observed
many incidents where an adult commits a crime and got bailed due to the less imposement of punishment on them because of their. after few days later
since they were rescued they do enagege in doing the same crime again. In bangladeh, the adult crimes is one ofthe major problems recently.
everyday in the newspaper we see several news related to murder or rape commited by an adultor gang of an adult. The number of adult gang are also
increasing nowadays. In case of adults gang, several memener cumulated together to form a gang based on a specific territory. And these kind of 
gangs used to stabe pedestrians, and get figts with the gangs of other territory, do gambling and many more prohibited activities are done by them.
If there are stricts laws for them, then they didnt be able to do this kind of activities.In bangladesh, the adults between the age of 12-20,if they
commits a crime like murder or rape then they have sent into rehabilition center by the law enforcers and get bailed within one year. So they didnt
get the proper punishment. So, they just gather courage to do the same crime again in the upcoming days, as because they didnt get peoper punishment.

accrording to a survey by harvard, they observed that, those counrties which provides strict punishment against the juvelines in case of if they commits
a crime then the number of adult crimes are much less than those peer countries which impose less punishment on the juveniles.


Nowadays environmental problems are too big to be managed by individual persons or individual countries. In other words, it is an international problem.
To what extent do you agree or disagree?

 Environmental problem is one of the major issues nowadays. We can categorize this problem into many categories like air pollution,water pollution,
global warming and so on. This problem is uprising day by day, eventually it stands at a place where it cant be resolved by the assistance of indiviuals.
I opine that, the goverments and authorities should be united together to reduce this problems, and the individualis should also incerase their helping hands
towards goverment. By united contribution of all this problem might get reduced soon.



Global warming is one of the major environmental problem.the major causes of global warming are deforestation.With the modernizing of everything, the number
of industries are increasing enourmously. So they are cuttind down trees to construct industries.So, as a result the number of trees are reducing greatly 
throughout the world. Trees swallow carbondioxide which is released by human beigns.And in turn they realease oxyzen in nature. And the human beigns take
oxyzen to conduct their respiratory procedure. because of the reduction of trees the amount of carbon dioxide are increasin in environment, which in turn
causing global warming. Due to this excessive amount of carbon dioxide the ozon layer is also deminishing which in turn letting the sun rays entering
directly in our environment. when human body observe these rays, it can cause cancer or many other detrimental diseases. Besides due to global warming
the cumulated ice are also melting which is incersing the water level in the sea. because of this we are seeing unprecedented floods in many areas around
the world. drought problems are also increasing due to the global warming. So, the falling of rain are also reducing, which in turn causing fire in many
wild forest. for instance, recently fire broke out in an austrilian forest which burned almost 70% of that forest and also many wild animals got killed
due to the circumstances.
also the water gets contaminated due to the excessive amount of chemicals released by factories and industries. So, due to toxic from these chemicals
many sea creature are extincting from earth. And also several fishes are dying due to the contamination. so, the ecological balance are destroying because 
of this extinction.
Besides the air gets polluted by the vapour released by the factories and industries which ususally contains many detrimental elements.
These vast amount of problems cant be resolved by the individual unless the whole world are gathering under one roof to solve this problem.


on the other hand the individuals should also stretch their helping hand to mitigate this effects from earth. Their contribution can assist substantially 
in this aspect. For instance, If every person makes the determination of planting a tree at every one month Then the number of tress will be increased greatly.
Then, they resist themselves from casting garbage into the water. They can reduce the construction of industries if they think about the detrimental effect
which can be caused due to the construction. Even if they construct industries then they can take some cautious steps to rduce the casting of waste into 
water and they can use some modernized filters which will reduce the toxic level from the vapours released by the factories. Beside a bunch of individuals
can be cumulated together to form a group and can held several programms to increase the consciousness level among people. they can carry out several campaings
to raise the awarness level among people.Goverments of every countries can impose some strict rules in case of violating laws that can cause bad impacts 
in the environment.


In conclusion, i want to opine that environment is our friend. But due to our lack of friendly behaviour towards environment it started to show its
reluctancy towards us. It is high time we showed friendly behaviour towards environment.Because of our relucatncy, the sitution went out of hands.
it is not possible by the individuals to solve the problem. The world authorities and goverments should united together and also the individuals '
should possess enough awarness among them. only then we will be able to overcom from this recent situation. 



Due to effects of globalisation, the cultures of some countries are influenced by others. Some people think this is a natural process. Others think this is a threat
 to cultural identity. What is your opinion about this?


globalization has destructed the barriers between the countries around the world.due to the advancement of technologies the world seems like 
a home to us. globalization is incresing ramapantly with modernaization. for example, due to the advent of various social media we can easily know
about what is going in the outside world.we can easily adopt their advancement as well as the cultural identity of one country can also get 
influenced by the other countries easily.some people think this is a natural process. changing the outlook of culture is a natural process.the 
cultutre we are following right now is totally different from our ancient time.but behind this change globalisation plays a vital role in my
opinion. And of course every country has vested with their own culture.and if this culture get replaced by the others then definitely it 
can pose some detrimental effect throughout the country. here i will give my explanation.

firstly, the culture is revolutionary. it changes with the pace of time. when the human nation advent they used to observe a different culture.
but as the time passed,the world has become modernized. and with the modernazition the countries around the world has come closer.so cultures
of different countries easily get mixed with each other.for instance,in aspects of our generation, when we were at childhood, we used to follow
a totally different culture.at that time there were more emphasize on the phycilly connection with each other right now which get replaced by 
the virtual communication. at that time we used to play regularly in the evening time, right now most of the youths spend their leisure time
on digital gadgets and playing games. at that time, there wrer good intimacy between the family members and relatives. but right now this things'
get vanished from our society. we are more likely to live individually and just think only about ourself. at that time people used to gather 
together in a place especially family memebers and they  used to indulge in a converstaion with each other, used to share their grief with each 
other. but right now people are most likely to spend their leisure time with their mobiles and more precisely they are more likey to share 
their grief through a facebook status. so the identitiy of cultures just get changed massively with in a 15 or 17 years span period of time.
and this has become possible due to the modernization due to the globalization.....

as i alreday stated that every country has their own culture.. they usually followed their culture from their childhood..but suddenly
when it get changed by the other countries they just started to misuse of this change...due to the modernazitation it has become possible by
us to watch other countries broadcasted television programms by staying at our home throigh satellite televsision.. in persoective of bangladesh
most of the home has a satellite connection through which they can watch other countries television programm.. most of the families used to watch
indian serials in this time.. these serials screening their programms by visualizing their own culture.and their culture is toally different from us..
so the audience easily get influenced and they tried to implement their culture into ours.. and we can highlights the imposement of the indian
cultures into us by just observing some amrriage ceremony,where they tried to held some event which is totally similar 
to the indians... 









Some people think that success is the best measure for intelligence, while others thinks that intelligence can be measured in other ways.
 What is your opinion?





From the advent of the earth people have been exploring to find the best measures for eavluating intelligency. They have invented many tactic to do 
the evaluation..In ancient time, the individuals who have the ability to handle any situation,and to take instant decision at any time were considered
to be intelligent. but with the flows of time the vision of the masses got changed drastically..nowadays society think that the indivisuals
who are doing well in his educationa life, or who has been showing great performance in every classes, he/she is considered to be intelligent 
by the parents as well as by the society.but i totally despise with this kind of aspects. some exams or more precisely iq test cant measure 
the intelligency level of a person.. if this is the true measures then rabindranath could not be the world renowned poet and nazrul islam could not 
be national poet because both of them werent really well in their educational life..moreover people started to think that success is the best meausres
for intelligency, while others think that intelligence can be measured in other ways..fisrly i totally conflict with the vision that success is 
the best measures of intelligency.. success and intelligency totally relied on two diffenet aspects..



so, i have already stated that so called society convey the thoughts that success in the educational life is the measures of intelligency..if 
this is true then what about those who completed their graduation from a renowned university with a great result but still not finding jobs
to settle their carrier.. i have seen many students who were not really well in their educational life, moreover somehow they just completed
their gradution.. but right now they are successful..they are doing someting well than the intelectual people..we can put intellegency and wisdom
into the same pot.. however a survey by the washington university showed that  among 60 persent intelligent person ,40 percent are wisdom and 20 
percent are successful.. what does this means..intelligency cant be measured by success..success is totally depend on the hard work, resiliency
in the effort, immense focus towards the goal, denying the failure and tending towarsd goals with more faster speed and so on.. these are the 
best measues for making a person successful..What will be happened if one person is utmost intelligent,but he doest have the resilency to do hard
work, and more precisely he cant bear the pain of failure.. then success would just be a dream for him...the founder of alibaba wwas failed many
times in his effort.he failed many times in his educational life.. somehow he completed his gradution..then he was casted from  many job companies also.
but he didnt lose his hopes. he was sticked with his dreams more strongly after every failure.. he was resilient in his hard work, in his endeavour..
this made him the richest person in the china...not his intelligency not his sensibility..


on the other hand, in some cases intelligency can be measured by the cunningness, ability to cope up with any situation, ability to take any instant decision.
intelligency can also be measured by grabing the right opportunity in the right amount..one think i want to make attention about the intelligent person that
he has the ability to catch anything more fastly than an non-intelligent person..Sometimes success can also be achieved throught intelligency.. but
here also we cannot disreard the hardship, and endeavourness.. mark jukerberg and bill gtes are the right eaxmple for this..undoubtedly, they were really
intelligent in their adult life..at the same time they used to do more hardwork than the other adults at his ages..more than billions of people doing
and learning coding at that days as well as even nowadys also.. but both of them just took the right decision.. they made the right planning in the right moment..
mark jukerbarg   